# Introduction to Data Science: Final Project

## Proposal:

Groundwater is something we often don't think a lot about. However, groundwater supplies almost half of all drinking water around the globe. It also plays a large part in glboal food production, taking up almost half of the water used in agriculture. The quality of that groundwater can play a big role in the overall quality of life a person experiences. Living in an area without clean groundwater means a person is either being exposed to harmful contamiants daily, or they are required to import clean water from elsewhere, taking an economic toll on an area. My proposal is to make a general estimate of groundwater quality at monitoring wells accross Southern California and correlate those results to the socioeconomic status of the census block group they are found. It is important to understand how those most vulnerable in our society are disproportionatly impacted in all facets of life. Finding a correlation to lower socioeconomic status and worse water quality can be an important piece of information in describing the overarching inequality in modern life is not simply just economic, but also has to do with overall health and environmental impact.

Monitoring well sample data will be taken from [GeoTracker](https://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/data_download_by_county) and combined with a maximum contaminant level (MCL) dataset to determing the magnitude at which a sample at a specific location is above its limit. This will be used to determine an estimate for water quality at a given point. These points will then be correlated to a disadvantaged communities (DACs) database to determine if a well with worse groundwater quality is more likely to fall in a DAC or not.

Some possible data visualizations would be a scatter plot of water quality and socioeconomic status, A trend analysis for wells within DACs to determine if the quality is changing overtime.
